---
title: Why Do We Create Content?
date: '2024-03-14'
tags: ['content']
draft: true
featuredImage: blog/michael-and-memphis.jpg
summary: >
  Why do we create content? How do we create content? Learn about our drive and the reasons behind
  documenting our family time in video to share it with the world.
---

## A Brief History

It was 2016 and I was just getting into my early 30s. My wife [Yohana](https://linktr.ee/yoyosnails)
and I had been married for about four years, and we had two young children at home: Michael (3) and
Maia (not quite 1 at the time).

Michael discovered that he _really_ enjoyed playing on the iPad; he'd play Red Ball, Geometry Dash,
Mario, other puzzle games, and even explore Garage Band to make music.

I was working fulltime as a graphic designer and web developer for a media school, while also
attending college to further my studies and grow in my career. I didn't have much time/energy after
those obligations to play as much as I'd like. However, Michael and I still found time to play
together and he would often show me new things that he'd learn on the iPad.

Yohana and I were familiar with YouTube, as we had published some content on the platform before. My
niche was [hip hop and electronic music](https://youtube.com/@missionmikemusic), and Yohana's forte
was [nail art tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/@yoyosnails).

While finding new things for Michael to explore on his iPad, we found some children's shows on the
YouTube app for Michael to watch... and he seemed to greatly enjoy the videos. It didn't take long,
however, for the YouTube algorithm to recommend him new content, and he soon discovered some family
vlog channels and gaming content creators &mdash; parents who played with their kids and recorded
the process.

I remember peeking over Michael's should one day thinking "wow, that's so cool!" when I first saw
what [FGTeeV](https://www.youtube.com/user/fgteev) was doing. Michael would just CRACK UP watching
him and his family play together.

A seed was planted.

## Pondering and Planning

I began to ponder the steps I'd have to take to figure out how to create content like this... how to
record video from an iPad, capture audio, get a decent picture and lighting, and work with a green
sreen... most of which was brand new to me. I had history working with audio, and some digital video
experience, but not at the level I'd feel comfortable with to put ourselves out there for the world
to see.

There was so much content out there already. Such a high bar for quality standards, so many channels
and personalities; it seemed like there's no way I could create something fresh to stand out.

It took some self-convincing, but we eventually tried to record our gameplay!

## An Attempt

In early 2017, I purchased a fabric green screen with stand along with an iPad lightning-to-USB
adapter so we could capture video into OBS. I used my wife's digital camera to capture the video of
us playing. I hoped to edit it together in Adobe Premiere.

Michael and I sat down on some metal folding chairs next to each other in the
office/slash/nail-room, and we played.

Michael was naturally engaged with the game and our togetherness. He was having a **great** time. I
did my best to focus on playing and having fun &mdash; but my career-focused and
responsibility-laden mind sometimes has a difficult time letting go and having fun.

When we were finished playing & recording, I copied the files. I made a brief attempt to edit the
footage in Premiere Pro before I gave up, feeling defeated. I just wanted to create something cool,
but self-doubt and harsh self-criticisms won that night... I backed up the footage and called it a
wrap.

I didn't think we'd try to record again.

<Aside>

### Memory May Not Be Reality

Three years went by before we tried to record again. This delay was on me. Whenever I thought to try
again, my mind went back to the place we left off, and I remembered the attempt to be a disaster...
but in reality, that couldn't have been further from the truth.

Just because the first recording didn't go perfectly didn't mean that it was a failure. Nobody
starts off perfectly.

I didn't even look at the footage again for many years.

When I finally did... wow. It wasn't even bad. All that negativity in my mind prevented me from
moving forward.

Reader: if you're considering trying new things, don't make the same mistake I did!

</Aside>
